Coronavirus disease or COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus, Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans  In humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS); The most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease COVID-19.

The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is be well informed about the COVID-19 virus, the disease it causes and how it spreads, Protect yourself and others from infection by washing your hands or using an alcohol based rub frequently and not touching your face. 
.
Common symptoms of covid-19 include:
fever
tiredness
dry cough

Other symptoms include:
shortness of breath
aches and pains
sore throat
very few people will report diarrhoea, nausea or a runny nose
(These symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually).



The COVID-19 virus or coronavirus spreads usually through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, so it’s important that you also practice respiratory etiquette

The main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. The risk of catching COVID-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. However, many people with COVID-19 experience only mild symptoms. This is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. It is therefore possible to catch COVID-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill.  WHO is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of COVID-19 and will continue to share updated findings.



At this time, there are no specific vaccines or treatments, cure for COVID-19 or coronavirus; However, there are many ongoing clinical trials evaluating potential treatments.



To prevent infection and to slowdown transmission of COVID-19 ( Coronavirus ), do the following:

Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or clean them with alcohol-based hand rub,
Maintain at least 1 metre distance between you and people coughing or sneezing,
Avoid touching your face,
Cover your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing,
Stay home if you feel unwell,
Refrain from smoking and other activities that weaken the lungs,
Practice physical distancing by avoiding unnecessary travel and staying away from large groups of people.

The COVID-19 virus affects different people in different ways,  COVID-19 is a respiratory disease and most infected people will develop mild to moderate symptoms and recover without requiring special treatment; People who have underlying medical conditions and those over 60 years old have a higher risk of developing severe disease and death.



Protection measures for everyone

Stay aware of the latest information on the COVID-19 outbreak, available on the WHO website and through your national and local public health authority
Many countries around the world have seen cases of COVID-19 and several have seen outbreaks



No, The virus that causes COVID-19 and the one that caused the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 are related to each other genetically, but the diseases they cause are quite different

SARS was more deadly but much less infectious than COVID-19. There have been no outbreaks of SARS anywhere in the world since 2003.
